doc/txt/01-dependencies.md, before:

title:  Dependencies
author: Jabir Ali Ouassou
date:   2016-04-13



The only thing that is *really* necessary to compile the project, would be a
compiler that supports the Fortran standards from 1977 to 2008. But for your
own convenience, it is strongly recommended that you have these available:

 * [CMake](https://cmake.org/) (2.6+):
   a free, open-source, and cross-platform build system that automates the compilation details.
 * [GFortran](https://gcc.gnu.org/wiki/GFortran) (5.0+):
   a free, open-source, and cross-platform Fortran compiler from the GNU Compiler Collection.
 * [IFort](https://software.intel.com/en-us/fortran-compilers) (16.0+):
   a commercial Fortran compiler developed by Intel, with free licenses for 
   [students](https://software.intel.com/en-us/qualify-for-free-software/student) and
   [academics](https://software.intel.com/en-us/qualify-for-free-software/academicresearcher).

IFort generates much faster binaries than GFortran; for my simulation programs, we're
talking about a speedup of ~4x in benchmarks on an Intel Core i7 processor. I am
not really sure if this due to better vectorization, more aggressive inter-procedural
optimizations, or something else entirely. But the bottom line is that if you do have
access to an IFort licence, I strongly recommend using it. But if not, I *have* also 
tested the code extensively using only the free and open-source tools CMake and
GFortran, so having access to IFort should not be a necessity to use my programs.

Note that albeit slower, the binaries generated by GFortran can sometimes be more
stable than the ones generated by IFort; so if the programs exit with segmentation
faults, please send me a bug report, and try compiling with GFortran in the mean
time. Note also that the project *may* or *may not* compile using older versions
than GFortran 5.0 and IFort 16.0; I know that older versions of the code ran fine
using GFortran 4.9, but I haven't spent much time testing old compilers.

There are also some more optional dependencies:

 * [Gnuplot](http://www.gnuplot.info/) can be used to plot the results generated by my
   simulation programs, and simple Gnuplot scripts for visualizing the generated data 
   files should be provided as part of this project. But it should be straight-forward
   to import the generated data files to e.g. Matlab or R instead if you prefer that.
 * [FORD](https://github.com/cmacmackin/ford) can be used to autogenerate documentation
   for modern Fortran projects, including this one. This should be installed if you plan
   to modify the source code, and wish to automatically update documentation accordingly.

Commit message:

Tested IFort and GFortran versions.

doc/txt/01-dependencies.md, after:

title:  Dependencies
author: Jabir Ali Ouassou
date:   2016-04-13



The only thing that is *really* necessary to compile the project, would be a
compiler that supports the Fortran standards from 1977 to 2008. But for your
own convenience, it is strongly recommended that you have these available:

 * [CMake](https://cmake.org/) (2.6+):
   a free, open-source, and cross-platform build system that automates the compilation details.
 * [GFortran](https://gcc.gnu.org/wiki/GFortran) (5.0+):
   a free, open-source, and cross-platform Fortran compiler from the GNU Compiler Collection.
 * [IFort](https://software.intel.com/en-us/fortran-compilers) (16.0+):
   a commercial Fortran compiler developed by Intel, with free licenses for 
   [students](https://software.intel.com/en-us/qualify-for-free-software/student) and
   [academics](https://software.intel.com/en-us/qualify-for-free-software/academicresearcher).

Regarding the dependencies, the code was last tested with IFort 17.0.1 and GFortran 6.2.1.

IFort generates much faster binaries than GFortran; for my simulation programs, we're
talking about a speedup of ~4x in benchmarks on an Intel Core i7 processor. I am
not really sure if this due to better vectorization, more aggressive inter-procedural
optimizations, or something else entirely. But the bottom line is that if you do have
access to an IFort licence, I strongly recommend using it. But if not, I *have* also 
tested the code extensively using only the free and open-source tools CMake and
GFortran, so having access to IFort should not be a necessity to use my programs.

Note that albeit slower, the binaries generated by GFortran can sometimes be more
stable than the ones generated by IFort; so if the programs exit with segmentation
faults, please send me a bug report, and try compiling with GFortran in the mean
time. Note also that the project *may* or *may not* compile using older versions
than GFortran 5.0 and IFort 16.0; I know that older versions of the code ran fine
using GFortran 4.9, but I haven't spent much time testing old compilers.

There are also some more optional dependencies:

 * [Gnuplot](http://www.gnuplot.info/) can be used to plot the results generated by my
   simulation programs, and simple Gnuplot scripts for visualizing the generated data 
   files should be provided as part of this project. But it should be straight-forward
   to import the generated data files to e.g. Matlab or R instead if you prefer that.
 * [FORD](https://github.com/cmacmackin/ford) can be used to autogenerate documentation
   for modern Fortran projects, including this one. This should be installed if you plan
   to modify the source code, and wish to automatically update documentation accordingly.
