title:  Compilation
author: Jabir Ali Ouassou
date:   2016-04-13



@NOTE
  These instructions should work for POSIX compliant operating systems with all 
  the above dependencies installed. This should include Linux/Unix/Mac systems,
  and possibly also Windows if you have Cygwin installed. If you use any other 
  platforms or compilers than this, you may have to compile the project manually.

After you have obtained and unpacked the source code, open a terminal, and change
directory to the top directory of the project. This should be the directory with
the files `configure` and `CMakeLists.txt`. To prepare for compilation, you should
then run one of the following commands, depending on whether you wish to compile 
with GFortran or IFort:

    ./configure --gfortran
    ./configure --ifort

Hopefully, the code that you have obtained should be stable and reliable; but if you
need to search for bugs, it can be quite useful to compile the project in debug mode.
This disables all optimizations, and turns on safety checks both at compile-time and
run-time. To compile the project in debug mode, run one of these commands instead:

    ./configure --gfortran-debug
    ./configure --ifort-debug

After configuration, change to the subdirectory 'build', and run 'make' to compile:

    cd build
    make

If the project compiles successfully, the executables should appear in the subdirectory
`bin` of the top directory. 

Note also that this documentation is autogenerated. If you modify the sources and wish
to update the documentation accordingly, then just install the documentation generator
[FORD](https://github.com/cmacmackin/ford), and run the following command to regenerate:

    ./configure --doc

